Research proposal draft
Group 16
Members: Sidney Jones, Henry Adams, Ines Sellami, Niansheng Niu (Nelson)

Suggested data set: 

1. https://data.guttmacher.org/states/trend?state=US&topics=65&dataset=data
2. 
3.

What are the key factors that influence the number of abortions per capita in each US state?
  Factors that we'd like to investigate: 
    - extent of religious beliefs 
    - political beliefs
    - education levels
    - income 
   
Research proposal includes: 
-Context and motivation: controversy, hot topic today 
-suggest available datasets and or sources of data: pew foundation
-sketch methods for analysing data 
-outline what a succesful project will tell you about your domain of interest: hypothesis= the factors studied influence negatively abortion



Basic method: Put all datasets in forms of number per capita by state, so it is possible to make linear regressions of all of the key factors.
We will then make a graphic such as a heat map (made possible by the fact our data is collected for each state) to illustrate findings of any observed correlation.


    

Hypothesis: such factors correlate with number of abortions.  hypothesis can't be implied in research question for reasons of implicit bias 

  (What are the key factors that impede access to abortions in the US? (only via suggestion):touch on this in conclusion- but definitely not the main focus)  
  
  With the current controversy surrounding abortion rights in the United States (US), we have decided to look at variations in the number of abortions from a 
  socio-economic demographic perspective. To this end we seek to draw an inter-state comparison by analysing different factors that may influence access 
  to abortion. We have outlined these quantifiable factors based on the study conducted by the Pew Foundation in 2019, entitled "Public Opinion on Abortion". The study
  analysed public opinion regarding abortion from 1995-2015 and plotted abortion against religious affiliation, political party and ideology, age as well as 
  education levels. Considering the fact that healthcare is a relatively expensive service in the US, we find it to pertinent to add one more potentially 
  influential factor that we would like to additonally investigate: income. 
  
  Therefore, our research question is as follow: "What are the key factors that influence the number of abortions per capita in each US state?". Given that
  access to abortion isn't quantifiable and varies on an individual basis, we choose to focus our research on the number of abortions per capita per state. 
  Thus,  we will be able to analytically and visually compare the number of abortions to the factors outlined above. 
  
  We hypothesise that many if not all of these factors will indeed negatively correlate with the number of abortions based on the results of "Public Opinion 
  on Abortion" (Pew Foundation, 2019). 
  
  
  
  
  With the current controversy surrounding abortion rights in the United States, we have decided to look at this topic from a socio-economic and demographic perspective. To this end, we seek to draw an inter-state comparison by analysing different factors that may influence access to abortion.
A recent study have showed that we need a more “nuanced understanding of abortion attitudes” as they are influenced by many factors such as education, religious affiliation, living in a rural setting, and political affiliation (Jozkowski & al, 2018). We have outlined these quantifiable factors as follows: 
-Education level 
-Religiosity 
-Political affiliation
-Income (considering the fact that healthcare is a relatively expensive service in the US-
Therefore, our research question is as follows: “What are the key factors that influence the number of abortions per capita in each US state?”. 

METHODS
First, we will put all datasets in forms of numbers per 1000, so that they can be easily compared to Abortion rates. 
All the datasets for different factors will be processed in order to make them easily readable and interpretable. We are planning on creating interactive maps, bar plots and box plots in order to see the contrasts between the 50 states, concerning our different factors. 
Then, we will confront each factor with abortion rate in order to make a linear regression and find a correlation. We will also make a chi-square test to see if the variables are dependent or not. Ultimately, we will make a graphic such as a heat map (made by the fact our data is collected for each state) to illustrate findings of any observed correlation. 

EXPECTATIONS
If our project is successful, we will understand how to use a socio-economic and demographic perspective to explain a more personal and individual choice, such as abortion. We hypothesise that many, if not all these factors will indeed negatively impact the number of abortions per capita in each US state. 

